# CS3250 Software Development Lifecycle
## Interpreting user needs with user stories
The start of most software development projects involves gathering requirements. This includes communication among clients, end-users, product owners, and various members of the Scrum team. A user story is a feature or requirement described from the perspective of the customer. This serves several purposes. First, it is a way for everybody involved in the product to discuss the requirement from a common perspective. Second, the requirement is described with limited (or no) technical specification. This empowers the development team to implement the user story empirically - based on thier experience, and the best way that they agree upon implementing it.

## Developing programs with agile processes
There are numerous project management methodologies applicable to software development. A long standing and well known methodology is the Waterfall approach. This approach to developing software is a linear approach, where the project is completed in specific phases - one phase does not begin until the previous phase is completed. Agile processes include frameworks such as Scrum. Agile process promote iterative development using small teams of developers operating in fixed timespans (sprints) to produce a working product during each sprint.  
I will incorporate most of the Scrum processes in my future development work. This includes conducting the scrum events (meetings), estimating and sizing requirements using user stories and story points, maintaining a product backlog, sprint backlog, and an producing increment product in each sprint. Agile processes can be delivered with higher quality, higher customer satisfaction, and much quicker when requirements are not very well known, or when there is a likelihood of change during development. The business landscape changes so frequently, and businesses must be able adapt to changes in the marketplace. Agile development seems to be an appropriate method to use for future assignments.

## Teamwork in software development
When considering being a good team member in software development, we should also discuss considerations of a team structure in the broader perspective. This includes how a team should be sized, the product to be built, the skillsets and experience levels of the team members, and many other factors. Agile frameworks like Scrum work by developing products iteratively using small teams of personnel with cross functional skills. There might also be subject matter experts on the team during a given sprint based on the product being built.  
The use of small teams means that each member is valuable to the product being built (nobody can get lost in the shuffle, in manner of speaking). So being a good team member in this sense means that each person is accountable and is relied upon to perform their role and carry out the functions for the good of the mission. A good team member will likely be more active and helpful with other team members because there will be a sense of fulfillment, and a sense they she is needed and accepted.  
As we learned throughout the course, one of the three pillars of the Scrum framework is transparency. An example of transparency is openness and being able to communicate with the team (and stakeholders) about the status of our work. An example of being open is admitting that we can’t fulfill a promise to a meet deadline. So as a good team member, we should be open in our communication during Scrum events and when updating and communicating the artifacts.
